---
title: "💯 GPA Calculator"
author: daniel
layout: post
date: 2020-02-23 22:10
tag: 
- python
- selenium
image: /assets/images/project/gpa_calc.gif
headerImage: true
projects: true
description: Quick little GPA Calculator for UBC students :)
category: project
externalLink: false
source: UBC_GPACalculator
imagewidth: 65%
hidden: show
---


# Motivation
## => *ubc do not calculate gpa for studentsssss*

To be completely honest, this is probably the most useful personal project I've ever done. Useful in the sense that __I will actually use it in my life__. Most personal projects are for extracurricular learning (?), or even just for resume :joy:.  

Anyways, this project allows UBC students to **get their GPA in less than 30 seconds**! If you are a first year user that just got into UBC with less than 50 credits in your transcript, it might be convenient to calculate it manually on a GPA calculator website. However, if you are a fourth year old head with like 120 credits and some 1 credit lab courses, it might not be so easy anymore. 

-----

# Language and Tools

- Python
- Selenium
- BeautifulSoup

-----

# Implementation

This project uses `selenium` webdriver package to click/navigate through webpages and `BeautifulSoup` to parse webpage HTML tags. 

### Login
The program will ask for your username and password, and use `send_keys()` function to fill it out in each text input area.

### Grabbing the Grades
Basically, the grades are all stored in a table on the UBC SSC page and the program finds the grades and their corresponding credit number using the following code. 

{% highlight python %}
smallSoup = soup.find('div', {'id' : 'tabs-all'})
subjectData = smallSoup.find_all('td', {'class' : 'listRow'})
subjectDataGrade = smallSoup.find_all('td', {'class': 'listRow grade'})
{% endhighlight %}

Then, it's just a `for` loop to accumulate all the grades and account for some edge cases! Quick and simple program that makes our lives easier :grinning:. 

-----

# Demo

[Here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1gBLQc7EwP_5f_bUPlcanBsR81scOZ2fS/view?usp=sharing) is a quick demo. 